Bitcoin Script is a simple stack-based language that offers a number of operations.
It even has conditional flow control.
However, there are intentional limitations
built into it which we'll be covering in this section.
The goal of this concept is to familiarize you with the prominent attributes of Script.
We'll be covering Turing Completeness and Stateless Verification.
Now, one major attribute of Script is that it is not Turing Complete.
This means there are no loops or complex flow controls,
other than conditional flow control.
This makes the language completely deterministic
so that we know when and how the program will end.
Turing and Completeness removes the fear of being stuck in
an infinite loop which could block or crash the network.
A limited language prevents
the transaction validation mechanism from being targeted and attacked as a vulnerability.
Turing and completeness simplifies and secures the system.
A second attribute of Script is that it is stateless.
This means that all information needed to execute the Script is contained
within the Script and no state is saved prior to running the Script,
or after the Script has ran.
The benefit of a Stateless Verification is that the same
Script run anywhere in the system will execute the same way.
So we can rest assured that a Script verified on our node,
we verified the same way on another node.
To recap, Bitcoin Script is not Turing complete and is stateless.
These two properties allow the network to better scale and build insecurity.
As you learn more about other bloc chains,
you'll encounter they've chosen to use languages
with similar or vastly different properties.
For example, instead of being stateless,
they may be stateful,
meaning they do have an internal state that allows for loops and recursion.
This allows for more flexibility but limits Scale for trustworthy verification.
As you approach new blockchain platforms.
be vigilant to understand the strengths and weaknesses of each implementation.